for this problem we can reuse the same heap sort
code
This is the code for max heap
But for this problem we need to convert the Max
heap code into min heap
So in the heapify function just renamed the
variable Max into min
After that in the if else statement changed the greater
than operator into lesser than operator
That's it
We have converted the Max heap Code into min heap
code
Next let us write the logic to extract the top
K elements from this min heap first write the function
to get top K elements which takes three parameters
First one is the array and the next one is its
size and third one is the value K
Now let us write
The logic as we have discussed we need to construct
the min heap for the first K elements so called
the build heap function with size as K minus one
After the min heap is constructed we need to compare
the remaining elements with root nodes value
If it is greater than the root we need to
replace the value and called the heapify process
again
So write a for loop to iterate the remaining
elements from index K to size and inside that we
need to check whether the current value is greater than
the root or not
So write if array of I is greater than array
of zero if it is greater than the root we
need to replace the root value with the current value
So write array of zero equal to array of I
and then we need to call the heapify
process to maintain the min heap order so
call the heapify function with arguments array and
the root index zero and the size K minus
one
After the execution of this loop the top K elements
will be present in the min heap
So write a for loop and printed top K elements
That's it we have implemented the logic to find the
top K elements.